[Music]
ah
pearl of the orient salon teardrop of
india whatever you call sri lanka one
thing is true about it
this beautiful country has unique
traditions you won't see
anywhere else in the world coconut
smashing
full moon celebrations and hotels
without beds
these are just a drop in the bucket
let's count down from
number 14 celebrating the full moon
every single full moon or poya is
officially a public holiday
which makes sri lanka the number one
country in the world
when it comes to frequency of holidays
each of these monthly poyas has its own
name and the dates obviously change
every year this tradition is a way to
commemorate important events in buddhism
for example the january poya is
celebrated to remember the first of
buddha's three visits to sri lanka
and the one in may celebrates his
birthday enlightenment
and achievement of nirvana number 13
shaking their head as a sign of
agreement
if you ask someone in sri lanka if the
weather weather's going to be good today
and they start shaking their head it
doesn't mean a thunderstorm is on its
way
it's quite the opposite it means yeah
it'll be a nice day
in the context of this example of course
in fact sri lankans don't just shake
their head but
waggle it by making a figure eight in
the air
a short waggle is also a way of saying
hey do a passer by
and a more energetic one means yes
it's not easy to get the movement down
just right so you
better practice
12. one word for many emotions
the sri lankan ao is a particular slang
word
it's been officially acknowledged by the
oxford dictionary
but putting a definition to it isn't
quite as easy as you think
if you ask 10 locals what it means
you'll most likely get 10
or more different answers
ao is super versatile and can express
anything from
joy to sorrow pity to disgust and
awe to anger so whenever you're talking
to a sri lankan
throw an occasional ao and they'll be
impressed
[Music]
number 11. beethoven means breakfast
time
if you go to sri lanka you'll hear
beethoven's fur elise in the streets
every morning bread trucks or tuck talks
have chosen it as their anthem for some
reason
in any case when locals hear the tune
they know the bakery on wheels is making
its way through the neighborhood
kind of like turkey in the straw in the
u.s for the neighborhood ice cream truck
number 10 the birthplace of cinnamon
it might have been made popular by the
ancient egyptians
but the first cinnamon in the world
comes from the central hills of sri
lanka
the island is still the number one
cinnamon exporter in the world
and there are eight types of it in the
country so next time you spice up your
meals or coffee with some cinnamon
don't forget to thank the sri lankans
number nine march madness
cricket is more than just a sport in sri
lanka it's a way of life
and of course a favorite pastime for
millions
from school kids to their grandparents
well everyone in the states is going
crazy for basketball
march madness in sri lanka is the time
of the big match
different schools compete to become the
big cricket champion
and the whole country watches but it's
not just about the competition
the spirit is just so contagiously
inspiring
if you choose march for a visit you'll
hear chanting see parades and flags
everywhere and if you aren't that much
into cricket
i'm sure you'll still enjoy the stage
performances jazz evening
and shopping festivals that are
organized along with the tournament
eight eating out only for special
occasions
if you're used to grabbing some lunch
with your co-workers or meeting up with
friends at a restaurant on a typical
friday
then i assume you're not in sri lanka
there
eating out is reserved for special
occasions like birthdays
anniversaries or some other important
milestone
it's not because they don't have any
restaurants there are plenty of those
and the food is amazing
it's just that sri lankan moms see
cooking as their privilege
and will wake up at 5am to make lunch to
go for every family member
number seven roomless hotels
imagine this you're traveling around sri
lanka and after a happily exhausting day
of sightseeing
you walk into a hotel and request a room
only to get a smile and a menu instead
it's not that the receptionist doesn't
like or understand you
it's because not every hotel in sri
lanka is a place you can sleep at
quite a lot of restaurants cafes and
bars are called hotels
no one knows the exact reason for that
but there is one theory
some time ago hotels were the best place
to get delicious and beautifully served
food
so they became associated with eating
out
therefore before you request a room make
sure the hotel you're at
even offers sleeping accommodations
6. serious tea business
if you're an avid tea drinker chances
are you're sipping on some warm sri
lankan greetings every day
the island country is fourth on the list
of top tea exporting countries
making 721 million dollars in 2018 alone
so yeah t history like as big as export
and the industry employs over a million
people
the first tee was brought from china to
sri lanka by the british in 1824
and back then the island was called
salon which basically became synonymous
for tea
locals have it first thing in the
morning and at around four pm
so at least two cups a day and there's
no upper limit
five powered by water hydropower used to
make up over 50 percent of
all the power used in sri lanka and even
though it's at around 20 percent now
it's still impressive this hydro powered
electricity is possible
thanks to waterfalls rivers and abundant
rains in the country
4. the largest christmas tree in the
world
it expects some wintry place like
finland to hold this record
but the tallest christmas tree in the
world was registered by guinness world
records
in sri lanka in 2017. it stood 236 feet
tall
and was made from metal and wood with
600 000
led bulbs that lit it up at night the
tree that looked more like a spaceship
to many
cost the country around eighty thousand
dollars
three smashing coconuts no
not pumpkins coconuts any sri lankan can
break a coconut
and it's as easy to them as tying their
shoes
smashing or dashing a coconut however
has deep symbolism
and can help you in different situations
if you believe in it
they can be positive situations like if
you want your favorite team to win
or negative ones like a way to punish an
enemy
there's even a special dashing ritual
for good luck and for bad luck
the main thing is not to mix the two up
number two the first country with a
female prime minister
in july 1960 sirimavo bandaraki became
the first female head of government in
the world
she was re-elected twice and remained
prime minister until she resigned in
2000 for health reasons
number one who to thank for the word
serendipity
sri lanka was once known as serendip to
the arabs and persians
back in 1754 english writer horace
walpole
came across this word in the title of a
persian fairy tale
the three princes of serendip and loved
it
the princes in that story were able to
make lucky guesses
and unexpected but important discoveries
the writer added an ending to the word
and has been widely used in the english
language ever since
hey would you like to visit sri lanka or
maybe you've already been there
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today
then give this video a like share it
with a friend
and here are some more cool videos to
check out from the bright side of life